docs: transform and filter documentation (#2653)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/filter-and-process/ottl-transform-and-filter/ottl-filter.md

# Filter with OTTL

Use filters to drop unwanted telemetry data from a pipeline. Filtering helps you reduce noise, lower storage and processing costs, and focus on the data that matters most.

## Overview

> [!NOTE]
> This feature is based on the underlying OpenTelemetry Filter Processor. For more implementation details, syntax, and examples, see the [OTel Filter Processor Documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/filterprocessor/README.md). However, bear in mind that some limitations and differences exist, as outlined in the [Limitations](./README.md#limitations) and the [Predefined Contexts](#predefined-contexts) sections.

You define these rules in the `filter` section of your Telemetry pipeline's `spec`.

Each rule in the `filter` list contains one or more `conditions`.

The pipeline drops any log, metric, or trace that matches **at least one** of the conditions you define. This means that multiple conditions are always combined with a logical OR. If any single condition evaluates to true, the data is dropped.

> > [!TIP] Remember

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!TIP]
```
The tip is not displayed properly. Maybe it needs to be on its own in the line?

> > The pipeline applies all transformation rules **before** it evaluates any filter rules. Any changes you make here affects the data that your filters see.

Author: Done, sorry

## Overview

> [!NOTE]

> > This feature is based on the underlying OpenTelemetry Filter Processor. For more implementation details, syntax, and examples, see the [OTel Filter Processor Documentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/filterprocessor/README.md). However, bear in mind that some limitations and differences exist, as outlined in the [Limitations](./README.md#limitations) and the [Predefined Contexts](#predefined-contexts) sections.

Reviewer 2: I believe we can shorten this:

```suggestion
> This feature is based on the [OpenTelemetry Filter Processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/filterprocessor/README.md), with some limitations and differences (see [Limitations](./README.md#limitations) and [Predefined Contexts](#predefined-contexts)).
```

And why does this have to be a separate note? Why not include it in the note in line 17?

You define these rules in the `filter` section of your Telemetry pipeline's `spec`.

Each rule in the `filter` list contains one or more `conditions`.

The pipeline drops any log, metric, or trace that matches **at least one** of the conditions you define. This means that multiple conditions are always combined with a logical OR. If any single condition evaluates to true, the data is dropped.

> [!TIP]

> > **Remember**: The pipeline applies all transformation rules **before** it evaluates any filter rules. Any changes you make here affects the data that your filters see.

Reviewer 2: You know what, I'll just make this a "note" in DITA, so you don't have to modify the type here.
```suggestion
> The pipeline applies all transformation rules **before** it evaluates any filter rules. Any changes you make here affects the data that your filters see.
```

Consider consolidating the two notes:
```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> - This feature is based on the [OpenTelemetry Filter Processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/processor/filterprocessor/README.md), with some limitations and differences (see [Limitations](./README.md#limitations) and [Predefined Contexts](#predefined-contexts)).
> - The pipeline applies all transformation rules **before** it evaluates any filter rules. Any changes you make here affects the data that your filters see.
```
